README.md, before:

# Introduction to Machine Learning (I2ML)

Main course site: https://compstat-lmu.github.io/lecture_i2ml

Repository on Github: https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml


## Content
This course offers an introductory and applied overview of "supervised" Machine Learning. 
This includes:

- ML Basics 
- Supervised Regression 
- Supervised Classification
- Performance Evaluation
- Classification and Regression Trees
- Random Forests
- Parameter Tuning
- Practical Advice

The course is of an introductory nature and geared towards students with some 
statistics background.
It is aimed at a practical and operational understanding of the covered 
algorithms and models, with less emphasis on theory and formalism.
The accompanying exercises, demos and tutorials are a mix of theoretical and p
ractical assignments, the latter in **`R`** (mostly with 
[`mlr3`](https://mlr3.mlr-org.com/)).


## Concept

The course is organized as a digital lecture, which should be as self-contained 
and enable self-study as much as possible. 
The major part of the material is provided as slide sets with lecture videos.
We have also prepared interactive tutorials where you can answer multiple choice 
questions, and learn how to apply the covered methods in `R` on some short 
coding exercises. 
Our plan is to extend this self-study material over the next months and years.


## Prerequisites

The course is targeted at *ML beginners* with a basic, university level, 
education in maths and statistics:

- Basic linear algebra: vectors, matrices, determinants 
- Simple calculus: derivatives, integrals, gradients
- Some probability theory: probability, random variables, distributions
- Basic statistics knowledge: descriptive statistics, estimators.  
(Linear) modelling from a statistics perspective will help, but is not required.
- Working knowledge of **`R`**


## Help is appreciated and welcome!

We hope to continously improve and expand this course over the coming years. 
We strongly believe in open source and collaborative work. Please contact us if 
you think likewise and would like to contribute. 
See also our [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

- Are you an ML expert and like the course, but have some feedback or consider 
  extending it? 
  Write an email to Bernd and Fabian (see [Team page](vignettes/team.Rmd)) or
  Open an [issue](https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml/issues).
- Are you a student taking the lecture - either at the LMU or online - and you 
  spotted a typo, think we should rephrase something be or even would like to 
  provide a new quiz question or coding example? Please consider providing a 
  pull request. To do so, please check out the *devel* branch of the repo and 
  add your fixes there. Writing an e-mail or opening an 
  [issue](https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml/issues) with suggested 
  improvements is obviously very welcome as well!
- You are none of the above but would like to contribute, get in touch / open
  [issues](https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml/issues) / create pull
  requests! We are happy about any help.


## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.


## Similar Projects

[Data Science in a Box](https://datasciencebox.org/) follows a similar 
philosophy as this course, with much more emphasis on learning R, doing data 
visualization and understanding more classical statistical inference methods 
(hypothesis tests, linear regression, etc.)

Commit message:

ask people to contact us if they are using i2ml

README.md, after:

# Introduction to Machine Learning (I2ML)

Main course site: https://compstat-lmu.github.io/lecture_i2ml

Repository on Github: https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml


## Content
This course offers an introductory and applied overview of "supervised" Machine Learning. 
This includes:

- ML Basics 
- Supervised Regression 
- Supervised Classification
- Performance Evaluation
- Classification and Regression Trees
- Random Forests
- Parameter Tuning
- Practical Advice

The course is of an introductory nature and geared towards students with some 
statistics background.
It is aimed at a practical and operational understanding of the covered 
algorithms and models, with less emphasis on theory and formalism.
The accompanying exercises, demos and tutorials are a mix of theoretical and p
ractical assignments, the latter in **`R`** (mostly with 
[`mlr3`](https://mlr3.mlr-org.com/)).


## Concept

The course is organized as a digital lecture, which should be as self-contained 
and enable self-study as much as possible. 
The major part of the material is provided as slide sets with lecture videos.
We have also prepared interactive tutorials where you can answer multiple choice 
questions, and learn how to apply the covered methods in `R` on some short 
coding exercises. 
Our plan is to extend this self-study material over the next months and years.


## Prerequisites

The course is targeted at *ML beginners* with a basic, university level, 
education in maths and statistics:

- Basic linear algebra: vectors, matrices, determinants 
- Simple calculus: derivatives, integrals, gradients
- Some probability theory: probability, random variables, distributions
- Basic statistics knowledge: descriptive statistics, estimators.  
(Linear) modelling from a statistics perspective will help, but is not required.
- Working knowledge of **`R`**


## Help is appreciated and welcome!

We hope to continously improve and expand this course over the coming years. 
We strongly believe in open source and collaborative work. Please contact us if 
you think likewise and would like to contribute. 
See also our [contributing guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)

- Are you an ML expert and like the course, but have some feedback or consider 
  extending it? 
  Write an email to Bernd and Fabian (see [Team page](vignettes/team.Rmd)) or
  Open an [issue](https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml/issues).
- Are you a student taking the lecture - either at the LMU or online - and you 
  spotted a typo, think we should rephrase something be or even would like to 
  provide a new quiz question or coding example? Please consider providing a 
  pull request. To do so, please check out the *devel* branch of the repo and 
  add your fixes there. Writing an e-mail or opening an 
  [issue](https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml/issues) with suggested 
  improvements is obviously very welcome as well!
- You are none of the above but would like to contribute, get in touch / open
  [issues](https://github.com/compstat-lmu/lecture_i2ml/issues) / create pull
  requests! We are happy about any help.


## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.

We would appreciate if you contact us in case you are re-using our course.
Knowing this helps us to keep the project alive. Thank you!


## Similar Projects

[Data Science in a Box](https://datasciencebox.org/) follows a similar 
philosophy as this course, with much more emphasis on learning R, doing data 
visualization and understanding more classical statistical inference methods 
(hypothesis tests, linear regression, etc.)
