in-person-class/01_ml-basics_supervised-regression.md, before:

What to bring for class:

- Laptop + cable
- Optional: Paper for name signs
- Optional: power strips
- Print-out of cheat sheets
- Print-out of this document
- Print-out of code demo
- Print-out of exercise + solution
- Optional: Sticky notes


# Welcome

- Honored to work with you!
- Teaching this course for the first time. Feedback very welcome.
- Hope to create an environment that allows learning. 
	- No judgement 
	- Questions are highly appreciated
	- I am here to help you learn, not to show you how smart I am
	- I often find it easier to ask a peer first, which is why we will do a
	  lot of group work. 
	- If you have quesions and I am not available, write them down and ask
	  me later!
	- Feel free to add any questions to Etherpad
	  https://pad.okfn.de/p/i2ml_ub_1
- 5 days of in-person class
- What will we do each day?
	- Morning (9:30 - 12:00): clarification of questions, deepening of
	  understanding
	- Afternoon (13:00 - 17:00): Solving exercises (group work), I will be
	  here until 3 and support
	- Day 1: ML Basics + Supervised Regression
	- Day 2: Supervised Classification
	- Day 3: Evaluation
	- Day 4: Trees + Random Forests
	- Day 5: Tuning
- [4 minutes] We will use breakout rooms a lot. Please read
  https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/115005769646-Participating-in-Breakout-Rooms
- Any organizational questions?
- Cheat sheets available: please bring them each day.


## Getting to know each other

- Who am I and why do I teach this course?
- Who are you?
	- Stats student, data science student, other
	- Found the videos pleasant to watch
	- Found the online quizzes easy
	- If online: Did you watch the videos?
- [8 minutes] Talk to your neighbours: introduce yourself, why are you taking
  the course, what were obstacles or questions you had when working through the
online material? Any questions specifically about content "ml basics" and
"supervised regression"?

# BREAK 15 minutes

# Diving into the materials

- Anyone want to share obstacles / questions with the group?
- Any other questions?
- Today: ML Basics + Supervised Regression


## ML Basics

- What are 2-3 key points you found important from the chapter on ML Basics?
	- [7 Minutes] Think about it, write it down for yourself, if needed
	  check the slides again
	- [10 Minutes] Discuss with your group, write them down in the
	  Etherpad of today: https://pad.okfn.de/p/i2ml_ub_1 
- Discussion of key points
- Any questions about ML Basics? Also check Etherpad



## Supervised Regression

- Questions, discuss with your group (click "Ask for help"
  button if you have questions or if you are done):
	- What is the difference between L1 and L2 loss? Can you
	  draw the difference?
	- The hypothesis space in linear regression is the set
	  of all linear functions. What does that mean?
	- How can you determine the right complexity in
	  polynomial regression?
	- Let's say, we know the height and the income of 500
	  people, how would we proceed to determine the
8-nearest neighbours of a given person?  Why would we have a
problem, if we only knew their hair and eye color? How would you
estimate the age of a given person using k-NN?
- Questions? Also check questions in Etherpad. 

# BREAK until 11


# Code demo (Tobi)

# LUNCH BREAK

# Afternoon

- Please work on solving the exercises:
  https://compstat-lmu.github.io/lecture_i2ml/articles/content.html#exercises  
- If you have a question or are stuck, ask for help (see button
  in Zoom) 
- The solution is available online. Please try to only look at
  it once you are done.
- I will distribute you into groups (breakout rooms).
- If there is any problem with your group, let me know.
- Each group is responsible to present one solution tomorrow
  morning: the number of the group = exercise number to present.
	- 5 groups = 5 exercises
	- You will be able to use screen sharing for this.
- I will be available for questions until 3.
- Don't forget to take breaks!
- Exercise 6 is a bonus exercise, which we will not discuss
  tomorrow.

Commit message:

add reminder to record session

in-person-class/01_ml-basics_supervised-regression.md, after:

What to bring for class:

- Laptop + cable
- Optional: Paper for name signs
- Optional: power strips
- Print-out of cheat sheets
- Print-out of this document
- Print-out of code demo
- Print-out of exercise + solution
- Optional: Sticky notes


# Welcome

- Honored to work with you!
- **I would like to record this session. Is this ok for everyone?**
- Teaching this course for the first time. Feedback very welcome.
- Hope to create an environment that allows learning. 
	- No judgement 
	- Questions are highly appreciated
	- I am here to help you learn, not to show you how smart I am
	- I often find it easier to ask a peer first, which is why we will do a
	  lot of group work. 
	- If you have quesions and I am not available, write them down and ask
	  me later!
	- Feel free to add any questions to Etherpad
	  https://pad.okfn.de/p/i2ml_ub_1
- 5 days of in-person class
- What will we do each day?
	- Morning (9:30 - 12:00): clarification of questions, deepening of
	  understanding
	- Afternoon (13:00 - 17:00): Solving exercises (group work), I will be
	  here until 3 and support
	- Day 1: ML Basics + Supervised Regression
	- Day 2: Supervised Classification
	- Day 3: Evaluation
	- Day 4: Trees + Random Forests
	- Day 5: Tuning
- [4 minutes] We will use breakout rooms a lot. Please read
  https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/115005769646-Participating-in-Breakout-Rooms
- Any organizational questions?
- Cheat sheets available: please bring them each day.


## Getting to know each other

- Who am I and why do I teach this course?
- Who are you?
	- Stats student, data science student, other
	- Found the videos pleasant to watch
	- Found the online quizzes easy
	- If online: Did you watch the videos?
- [8 minutes] Talk to your neighbours: introduce yourself, why are you taking
  the course, what were obstacles or questions you had when working through the
online material? Any questions specifically about content "ml basics" and
"supervised regression"?

# BREAK 15 minutes

# Diving into the materials

- Anyone want to share obstacles / questions with the group?
- Any other questions?
- Today: ML Basics + Supervised Regression


## ML Basics

- What are 2-3 key points you found important from the chapter on ML Basics?
	- [7 Minutes] Think about it, write it down for yourself, if needed
	  check the slides again
	- [10 Minutes] Discuss with your group, write them down in the
	  Etherpad of today: https://pad.okfn.de/p/i2ml_ub_1 
- Discussion of key points
- Any questions about ML Basics? Also check Etherpad



## Supervised Regression

- Questions, discuss with your group (click "Ask for help"
  button if you have questions or if you are done):
	- What is the difference between L1 and L2 loss? Can you
	  draw the difference?
	- The hypothesis space in linear regression is the set
	  of all linear functions. What does that mean?
	- How can you determine the right complexity in
	  polynomial regression?
	- Let's say, we know the height and the income of 500
	  people, how would we proceed to determine the
8-nearest neighbours of a given person?  Why would we have a
problem, if we only knew their hair and eye color? How would you
estimate the age of a given person using k-NN?
- Questions? Also check questions in Etherpad. 

# BREAK until 11


# Code demo (Tobi)

# LUNCH BREAK

# Afternoon

- Please work on solving the exercises:
  https://compstat-lmu.github.io/lecture_i2ml/articles/content.html#exercises  
- If you have a question or are stuck, ask for help (see button
  in Zoom) 
- The solution is available online. Please try to only look at
  it once you are done.
- I will distribute you into groups (breakout rooms).
- If there is any problem with your group, let me know.
- Each group is responsible to present one solution tomorrow
  morning: the number of the group = exercise number to present.
	- 5 groups = 5 exercises
	- You will be able to use screen sharing for this.
- I will be available for questions until 3.
- Don't forget to take breaks!
- Exercise 6 is a bonus exercise, which we will not discuss
  tomorrow.
